Mock Interview Questions for Preparation
-------------------------------------------------------------------

1. What is java? & Why you choose Java.

2. What is JDK?

3. Draw the JDK Diagram?

4. How many data types we have?

5. Ascending order of numeric data types?

6. What is Type Casting?
Types of type Casting:
2 types:
(i) Widening Type Casting
(ii) Narrowing Type Casting

7. What is JVM Architechture?

8. How many class loaders we have?

9. How many .(dot) extensions will create after executing the one code?

10.Can I take multi classes in single java file?
( a class has two access modifiers public , default modifiers )

11.How many token we have?

12.What are access modifiers we have?

13.How many access modifiers tokens we have?

14.Explain class Structure?(stste and behavior of PEN class).

15.Description if main method.

16.What is meant by "WORA" in the context of JAVA?

17.Explain how JAVA achieves Platform Independence?

18.What role does that JVM play in making java platform independent?

19.How do byte code and the java compiler contribute to platform independence?

20.Explain the process of executing a Java program on different platforms.

21.What is the difference between platform independence and platform-specific
   features on JAVA?

22.What is a literal in JAVA?

23.How are integer literals represented in JAVA?

24.Explain the difference between a decimal literal and an Octal literal in
   Java?

25.What is a Floating-point literal, and how is it written in JAVA?

26.What is an instance variable in Java, and how does it differ from a 
   local variable?

27.Explain the concept of a static variable. How is it different from an
   instance variables

28.What is a parameter variable in the context of methods in Java?How are 
   parameter variables used?

29.Define local variable in Java.How is the scope of a local variable 
   determined, and what are its limitations?

30.Discuss the scope of instance variables,static variables,parameter variables and
   local variables
   How does the scope of each type of variable affect its visibility in 
   different parts of the Java program?

31.How can you initialize an instance variable in java with a user-defined
   value during object creation?

32.Explain how constructors can be utilized to set user-defined values for
   instance variables in Java class.

33.What is the role of setter methods,and how do they facilitate the 
   assignment of user-defined values to instance variables?

34. What is wrapper class, its type, either its work internally or externally?

35. Why and where we declare static variables?

36. Difference between constructor and methods?

37. What will happen if we write return statement to the constructor?

38. What is encapsulation?

39. What concepts we are using for encapsulation?

40. What is the difference between new operator and new method?

41. Where object will be created?

42. What is data hiding? one example.

43. How can we access private variable outside the class?

44. What are the transfer statements in java?

45. What are the conditional statements in java?

46. What are the iterative statements are there in java?

47. Difference between features of java and oops?

48. What is constructor and methods?

49. What is method chaining?

50. What is this keyword? What is the use of this keyword?

51. What is variable?

52. What is inheritance and its types?

53. Write a java program to check the given number is Armstrong or not?

54. Write a java program to check the given number is Prime no. or not?

55. Write a java program to check the given number is Perfect no. or not?

56. Write a java program to print the Fibonacci series up to given number?

57. Patterns questions in Java.

58. Default values for all primitive datatypes?

59. What is IS-A relationship?

60. Write one program based on IS-A relationship?
